The Joe Rogan experience.
Do you think that much like this country is an experiment in self democracy?
A very recent experiment. When you look at human history, right?
Absolutely hundreds of thousands of years that we've been human.
There's really only been a couple years, a hundred years of this.
That's do you think that that's maybe the lens that we should look at?
Something like democratic social through? Not that it can't work,
but that it hasn't been implemented correctly.
Before. That's exactly. That's why we gotta get beyond the ism.
You're absolutely right. See what makes, uh, uh,
not just the United States has been democratic experiments all around the world.
Various circumstances.
We become central stage because we become a world power
that understands itself as a democracy with all the contradictions that go hand
in hand. With that begin as a settler colonial enterprise still got slavery.
Patriarchy workers don't have the right to engage in
collective bargaining in the United States until the 1930s Argentina had
in the 1830s are the team is not known to being on the cutting edge for social
justice. <laugh> love you down there in Argentina <laugh> but they know that,
but they had collective bargaining. Why?
Because our Robert barons and our power elites were so powerful. Mm.
You see,
Rockefeller and company had private militias that were bigger than a lot of
public armies mm-hmm <affirmative> to make sure workers were not able to engage
in collective bargains in San Francisco,
just yesterday at the Commonwealth club, which is now lodged in,
in the longshoreman's association, which is fascinated.
Commonwealth is well to do ruling class Harry Bridges,
longshoreman strong union, Jack London,
another great socialist there in Oakland. Right.
And what would each trying to do?
They were just trying to ensure that ordinary people gain access to jobs
with a living wage mm. Decent education.
This is one reason why I I've spent so much time with my dear brother,
Bernie Sanders. Right?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> because it's a democratic project that simply says how
come poor children can't have access to some of things that the children of the
well to do have they have the same value. And of course, as a Christian, for me,
they have exactly the same value. Right? So how will they get it?
Well, here comes socialist movements that say,
first thing they wanna do is we're against child labor laws.
That's that's the jungle that's Upton Sinclair. Mm he's.
A socialist tried to be governor of California. Right. And what were they doing?
What were, what, what were these, these capitalists doing?
They're hiding these kids at six years old, seven years old,
they were dying at 30.
There were no laws against child labor and working seven days a week.
So the labor movement brought us the weekend. And I'm not talking about the,
from Canada. <laugh> God bless him.
I'm talking about the two days we have off,
because if we didn't have that from the socialist movement and the labor
movement they'd have been working young kids seven days,
they did that year after year, decade after decade, that's greed. Right?
That's that's greed. There's no accountability. You see.
That's where that whole idea of the let the market decide falls apart. Exactly.
Because the market just wants profit. Right?
Absolutely.
And that doesn't mean that markets cannot be used in democratic ways,
but they need to be ethical, but they gotta be ethical.
You got to have some accountability and regulation and child labor laws were
very important at breakthroughs at that time. But there are other, you, you had,
you need to have laws to make sure the water was clean and the food was
regulated and clean and.
So forth. There's a narrative that you get from poor people often,
or P people that are lower middle class that are against the concept of
socialism, because they equate it with people that want a free ride.
That's right. They, they equate it with people that don't wanna work hard.
That's right. And how that, that's a,
it's a strange narrative when you consider all the things that we talked about
already, like the,
what we need with the fire department and the police department and all the
different ways that socialism does form utilities and all the different ways
that socialism does form a, a part of our, our culture and our community.
Why do you think that that is this narrative and how,
how does that narrative get reshaped? Because that narrative of that,
the only reason why people want socialism is because they want a free ride.
Right.
Right. Ooh, that's a wonderful question. But one is that, um,
you have to first,
we have to listen very closely to our right wing brothers and sisters
and conservatives and mids because oftentimes,
I mean,
they're human means like anybody else and they've had their own arguments.
I don't think they have strong ones, but they have their own arguments.
Mm <affirmative>.
So the first thing you'd say about that is what makes you think that the well
to do don't have free rides?
What is inheriting wealth all about?
Well, inheriting wealth is free ride. Absolutely. It's.
All it is. What is free? The connections. So getting into the prep schools,
the Ivy league schools and so forth, even though they work,
it's still a kind of free ride. Yes.
So if they're preoccupied with this issue of being a free ride, you, you,
we tell them, let's make sure that people do work hard.
Yes. And sacrifice, and therefore in some way deserve what they have. Now,
if just based on principle,
the upper echelons of American society would be indicted. Yes.
Deeply indicted.
And it's not a matter of hating the rich cause I don't believe in hating anybody
individually. I hate greed. Yes. I hate injustice. I hate white supremacy.
I hate anti-Jewish prejudice. I hate anti Palestinian prejudice.
I hate patriarchy and so forth.
But the human beings where these ideologies filter through are still
human beings. Yes. You see what I mean? So that's the beginning of it.
Now of course, part of the question here is, has to do with, uh, they'll say,
well, we wasted this money on the poor. He said, well, wait a minute,
Donald Trump just passed a
$750 billion military budget. Democrats voted for it too.
How much waste is in the military?
Why is 60 cent of every $1 come outta the federal bullet budget
tied to the military?
Why is there no close oversight and accountability of it?
How come American people don't know about the full countries that we are bombing
or assisting other countries in bombing. And we can go right down. Pakistan,
Afghanistan, absolutely. Molly,
Niger, Somalia, um, Iraq. I mean,
you can go on and on and on. Right?
How come we don't know about the 4,800 military units, 587 around the world.
We got us special operations in 128 countries.
Only 197 in the world. Right?
What about the soldiers who die hardly any talk about it?
What about the innocent people? We kill hardly any talk about it.
What about the drones that we still dropping and not always on
military combatants, but innocent people almost.
Primarily on innocent.
People. Sometimes even disproportionately.
Those are precious people too. Yeah.
And they have the same value as anybody in Ethiopia, America, Chicago.
But you feel the drones are particularly insidious because it doesn't even seem
like it's really happening because it's a robot doing it. Absolutely.
And it's done.
Distance remotely, no human sensitivity.
At all.
Apparently the PTSD that suffered by those remote drone operators is pretty
profound too. You can understand.
That. Yes. You can deeply understand.
And yet no serious public conversation about it in the little tell you I was on
the plane the other day. And, uh, the pilot says, uh,
I hope you all are able to take a few minutes of your time because we've got a
family outside, waiting for the body of someone just killed in Afghanistan,
an Italian family in Chicago.
One of the saddest things you ever wanna see in your life, man,
is a family lined up and they bring in the body out and you say to yourself,
how come there's no public spotlight on
that? And you see, when I was growing up in the sixties,
Walter Kranky Vietnam, we saw the bodies.
Well, during the Bush administration,
they made it illegal to take photographs of flag draped, coffins.
That's exactly. Which is unbelievably insane. That's.
A exactly right. And continued under Obama and company, you know? And you say,
well, wait a minute, they they're paying this ultimate cost.
And the, uh, they changed the narrative and the tears of the, the families.
And they can't even put a public spotlight on it. Yeah, my God.
And then of course they lie to us as well.
Our drones are not in any way killing civilians and they end up killing an
American and they have a press conference the same day in economic compensation
for the family, the rest of their life. I agree with that.
But what about the drones that are killing folk in Yemen and Somalia and
Pakistan and Afghanistan? Oh, they deny they're even killing them. Yeah.
You say quit lying. That's John Brennan and company.
He was in both Bush and Obama administration. You see,
how do we keep track of those in the name of what democratic accountability?
That's not socialism. Socialism is democratic accountability,
but there's been socialism without democratic accountability.
And what do you get? Tyranny? That's Soviet union and company.
But when you get capitalism with no democratic accountability, what do you get?
You get a predatory capitalism with gross wealth inequality,
and everyday people to masses of porn, working people fighting for.
Crumbs. And there's also this denial of it. Amongst the most patriotic.
They don't want to consider it.
They don't wanna factor it in to what we think of when we think of America.
The great, no, you don't. You want,
you don't wanna factor in those innocent people, which I,
what was the last time we checked? It was in the 90%, right. Of people that,
that are killed by drones are actually innocent. It's,
it's some insane number.